# chord-diagram

Utility to query the fretboard diagrams of several lute-family instruments.

## System Requirements

* A recent [LilyPond](http://lilypond.org/)
* A recent [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/)

## Usage

Invoke the following command to query the fret diagrams of four common chords on guitalele:

```shell
$ chord-diagram guitalele C Am F G7
```

You will get *guitalele-C-Am-F-G7.png* on your working directory.

## Supported Instruments

* `guitar`
* `ukulele`
* `baritone`, i.e. baritone ukulele
* `guitalele`
* `mandolin`
* `mandola`

Banjos and bass guitars are not supported because their fretboard diagrams are not bundled with LilyPond.

The fretboard diagrams of banjoleles are same as those of ukuleles.

## Command-Line Parameters

* `-v` or `--version` to show version info and exit
* `-h` or `--help` to show help message and exit
* `-o` or `--output` to specify the output file name
* `-s` or `--size` to specify the size of a fretboard diagram
* `-ly` or `--lilypond` to generate the corresponding LilyPond code instead

## Warning

The fretboard diagrams are based on the predefined fretboard diagrams provided by LilyPond. They are never the solely correct fretboard diagram given a chord.

## Contribute

Welcome to package the program into some installable format like a Chocolatey package or a Homebrew package.

Other contributions are welcome as well.

## TODO

* To support keyboard diagrams

## Copyright

The program itself is licensed under MIT.

You keep your own fretboard diagrams or LilyPond code generated by the program in any license you prefer.
